Editorial review (#80)
iov-one/docs: docs/weave-tutorial/04-models.md

---
id: models
title: Models
sidebar_label: Models
---

> [PR#6](https://github.com/iov-one/tutorial/pull/6): _Create models_

> We defined our state in [codec section](weave-tutorial/03-codec.md). To use models in weave we have to wrap our model with some functionalities and enforce it is a **morm.Model**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We defined our state in [codec section](weave-tutorial/03-codec.md). To use models in weave we have to wrap our model with some functionalities and enforce it as a **morm.Model**
```

> Ensure our `OrderBook` fulfills morm.Model. This is just a helper so the compiler will complain loudly here if you forget to implement a method. Guaranteeing it *I am trying to implement this interface*.

Reviewer: `Again, I don't understand helper in this context.`

Author: `Helper` where modules simple additional functionalities put.

> Ensure our `OrderBook` fulfills morm.Model. This is just a helper so the compiler will complain loudly here if you forget to implement a method. Guaranteeing it *I am trying to implement this interface*.

Author: This piece of code `var _ morm.Model = (*OrderBook)(nil)`is the helper on this context, not the `Orderbook's` itself. I think the appropriate sentence would be: `This is just a helper that enforces OrderBook model to fulfill morm.Model interface so that if you forget to implement a method compiler will complain`

```go
var _ morm.Model = (*OrderBook)(nil)
```

> Now let's explain on our model's identity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's explain our model's identity:
```

## Auto incremented identities

> `morm.Model` covers auto-incremented IDs for you. All you have to define `GetID` and `SetID` methods. If you defined `bytes id = 2 [(gogoproto.customname) = "ID"];`  on `codec.proto` you do not even need to write `GetID` method by yourself, Thanks to prototool it will be generated automatically. You will only need to define SetID method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`morm.Model` covers auto-incremented IDs for you. All you have to do is define `GetID` and `SetID` methods. If you defined `bytes id = 2 [(gogoproto.customname) = "ID"];`  on `codec.proto` you do not even need to write `GetID` method by yourself, Thanks to prototool it will be generated automatically. You will only need to define SetID method.
```

## Custom identity

To use your custom identity, do not define `bytes id = 2 [(gogoproto.customname) = "ID"];` on `codec.proto`. You can use any other field as an index with logic on top. Just write `SetID` and `GetID` logic that uses your index.

> Now you see how indexing works in Weave. Let's see the other wonders of the framework.

Reviewer: `This is the first time Weave is initial capped.`

    errs = errors.AppendField(errs, "MarketID", isGenID(o.MarketID, false))

    if !coin.IsCC(o.AskTicker) {
        errs = errors.AppendField(errs, "AskTicker", errors.ErrCurrency)
    }
    if !coin.IsCC(o.BidTicker) {
        errs = errors.AppendField(errs, "BidTicker", errors.ErrCurrency)
    }

    if o.TotalAskCount < 0 {
        errs = errors.AppendField(errs, "TotalAskCount", errors.ErrModel)
    }
    if o.TotalBidCount < 0 {
        errs = errors.AppendField(errs, "TotalBidCount", errors.ErrModel)
    }

    return errs
}
```

We use `errors.AppendField`, It enables multi error validation.

## Errors

Here are some weave errors taken from [weave/errors](https://github.com/iov-one/weave/blob/master/errors/errors.go "Weave errors"):

```go
// ErrUnauthorized is used whenever a request without sufficient
// authorization is handled.
ErrUnauthorized = Register(2, "unauthorized")

// ErrNotFound is used when a requested operation cannot be completed
// due to missing data.
ErrNotFound = Register(3, "not found")

// ErrMsg is returned whenever an event is invalid and cannot be
// handled.
ErrMsg = Register(4, "invalid message")
```

> What is with these `ErrXYZ()` calls you may think? Well, we could return a “normal” error like `errors.New("fail")`, but we wanted two more features. First of all, it helps debugging enormously to have a stack trace of where the error occurred. For this, we use [pkg/errors](https://github.com/pkg/errors "go/pkg") that attach a stack trace to the error that can optionally be printed later with a `Printf("%+v", err)`. We also want to return a unique abci error code, which may be interpreted by client applications, either programmatically or to provide translations of the error message client side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What is with these `ErrXYZ()` calls, you may think? Well, we could return a “normal” error like `errors.New("fail")`, but we wanted two more features. First of all, it helps debugging enormously to have a stack trace of where the error occurred. For this, we use [pkg/errors](https://github.com/pkg/errors "go/pkg") that attach a stack trace to the error that can optionally be printed later with a `Printf("%+v", err)`. We also want to return a unique abci error code, which may be interpreted by client applications, either programmatically or to provide translations of the error message client side.
```

For these reasons, weave provides some utility methods and common error types in the errors [package](https://godoc.org/github.com/iov-one/weave/errors). The ABCI Code attached to the error is then returned in the [DeliverTx Result](https://github.com/iov-one/weave/blob/v0.20.0/abci.go#L114-L126).

> Every package ideally can define it’s own custom error types and error codes, generally in a file called [errors.go](https://github.com/iov-one/weave/blob/master/x/sigs/errors.go). The key elements are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every package ideally can define its own custom error types and error codes, generally in a file called [errors.go](https://github.com/iov-one/weave/blob/master/x/sigs/errors.go). The key elements are:
```
